QA Challenge Part 2 Questions

1. Explain why you chose to use those particular tools/frameworks in the technical challenge?
Answer - I used RestAssured because it is a easy to use library and has support for Java language,
 which I am familiar and comfortable with. The library provides easy configuration to test API
 eliminating the need to establish HTTP connection, write extensive request/response etc.
 I also used JUnit as my choice of testing framework as it is easy to implement and write test classes.
 In this scenario, I feel this framework was enough to cover the requirements. abc

 In case we are looking to develop a more comprehensive testing framework with better reporting capabilities,
 my preference would be to use TestNG.

2. Describe the reason for the scope of your solution. Why did you test what you did,
and why didn’t you test other things?
Answer - I would say the scope of the solution is to mainly build the tests to cover the critical scenarios
as per the problem statement. This is why I have added a test class used to test the Metaweather Location Search API
based on city and date. I also added another test class which exposes what I consider a bug.
This class covers the Metaweather Location Day API with invalid date parameter.

A more comprehensive test scope would include iterating the test scenarios using a larger data set -
valid and invalid data, boundary condition tests.


3. What questions would you ask your Product Owner / what information would you need to know, to be able to test the whole MetaWeather API service comprehensively?
Answer - Some of the things I would request are-
a. Information regrading all possible HTTP status codes -
    For example, successful API call should return 200,
    creating a resource should return 201 CREATED and
    unauthorised requests should return 403 FORBIDDEN, etc.
b. Check scope beyond functional testing -
    Details regarding the user load that the application should be able to handle.
    We can also check if the response times of the API meets the agreed value in the SLA.
    This will allow us to do performance testing of the API.
c. Security and Authorisation -
Check that the API is designed according to correct security principles - protocols, authorisation etc.

4. After completing the technical challenge, what would you do differently
if you were asked to do the same challenge again?
Answer - I would like to test the scenario over larger data sets. I would also explore the usage of other tools and
frameworks to build the test to see which is the best approach that can be applied as per a given requirement.

